so now I'm seeing a couple of questions
about mental health so let's let's talk
about this the first question I'll get
into borderline personality disorder in
abusive behavior in a second but first
question is what's the difference
between bipolar and borderline
personality disorder great question and
people get really confused because
sometimes both of them are abbreviated
with BPD so bipolar disorder is a mood
disorder so it's something that happens
to you so I think about mood disorders
as being somewhat like independent of
who you are so if we think about
something like the flu like the flu
happens to you you're not you know
you're not the flu you're a person who
gets the flu and when I think about
depression and bipolar disorder I think
about people who get depressed or become
bipolar but it doesn't change kind of
who they are as a person and
[Music]
so bipolar disorder is characterized by
mood swings that last for weeks to
months at a time so this isn't like I
have a really volatile mood swing in
terms of I'm super happy at like 12 noon
and then at 2 p.m. I'm super pissed off
and at 4 p.m. I'm crying that's not
bipolar disorder bipolar disorder is
characterized by persistent moods
that are either elevated or depressed
for like weeks at a time so people in
bipolar disorder sometimes experience
depression so they'll feel like
depressed for weeks to months at a time
pretty much like most days for most of
the day they'll feel like sad or they'll
feel like they have something called low
self attitude which means that they
think that they're like bad people they
think their burdens to other people they
kind of have these thoughts like other
people would be better off without me
they kind of have like these these kind
of persistent negative thoughts they can
also have low energy levels so that it's
like hard for them to get up and get out
of bed some people describe it to me is
like walking through molasses like
normal normally when we walk we're just
like walking through air and there's
like no resistance to walk but when I've
worked with depressed people they'll say
like even walking becomes really really
hard and so that's kind of the
depressive side and then the manic or
hypomanic side is kind of the opposite
of depression so people who are
hypomanic will need less sleep they have
tons of energy they have really great
ideas they kind of like think that
they're they they're able to perform
actually at a very high level
interesting side note is that at Harvard
College which is the undergrad the
incidence of of people who are hypomanic
and bipolar is like three times the
average population so sometimes bipolar
disorder people are actually like way
more productive than the average human
being which is kind of bizarre but
so they can have periods of time of like
kind of hyperactivity as well as
depression and then then you get up into
true mania which is like when you're so
high that like you don't think straight
so people who are manic
we'll sort of like think that they can
do things that other people can't do
they'll feel superhuman they'll have all
these amazing ideas they'll wake up one
day and say I know how to solve like
global climate change like I have the
idea and I know how to do it I can fix I
can transcend time they'll say like all
kinds of like really bizarre things a
big a characteristic of hypomania and
mania is also reduced amounts of sleep
so people who are hypomanic can usually
run in a pretty high like a libera in
terms of efficacy with like four hours
of sleep a night whereas people who are
truly manic will be able to go days with
sleeping very little to no sleep like
one to two hours this isn't like I've
only got two hours of sleep and
overnight because I was tossing and
turning a lot of people have something
called sleep misperception syndrome
where you didn't actually sleep two
hours you probably slept like six to
eight and it was interrupted and it felt
like two but people are truly manic will
go like will only sleep like two hours a
night or even less so that's bipolar
disorder so with people with bipolar
disorder unless they're depressed or
manic they are like completely normal so
like I could have bipolar disorder and
I'm completely fine today and tomorrow
I'll be depressed I'll be depressed for
a couple months
I'll come out of it and I'll be
completely
some people are asking yeah is it so
people are asking about timeframes so
yes so bipolar disorder so in order to
be diagnosed with like depression and
bipolar disorder you need like two week
you need like a two week block where
you're pretty much depressed most days
in for mania it's like lasts it's like
one week and can you self-identify as
having bipolar disorder I mean you can
so I do think that I think a lot of
times physicians like underestimate how
meant how much like non medically
trained people can like know about
medicine and psychiatry so for example I
mean I've learned so much about cancer
chemotherapy from family members of
patients do you think that an oncologist
knows everything about chemotherapy but
it's amazing how much a dedicated person
with like no official training can learn
about a scientific skill so you could
self-identify or self diagnosed yourself
with bipolar but I really wouldn't
recommend it because there are a lot of
nuances that kind of go into the
diagnosis and there also a lot of things
that can interfere with it for example
if you're using marijuana or any other
substances you may not have bipolar
disorder because all that [ __ ] is going
to be messing with your brain
now to kind of go to BPD which is
borderline personality disorder so in
psychiatry we talk about two different
classes of illnesses we talk about sort
of like things that happen to you like I
was saying earlier are things that you
are so if we think about someone who's
like a narcissist you don't wake up one
day and for two weeks like exist exhibit
a narcissistic behavior and then the
narcissism goes away like an arson
narcissism is sort of like part of your
personality structure doesn't mean it
can't change doesn't mean it can't get
better but it's sort of like part of the
way that your psychological makeup is in
borderline personality disorder is like
that so it's part of someone's like
psychological makeup and so every day
when they wake up they have some
experiences that are different from
other people and in my opinion sort of
the foundation of borderline personality
disorder is not understanding like who
you are on the inside
so if I'm walking down the street I gave
this example recently on stream and
someone like you know calls me an idiot
then I have a sense of self and I know
I'm not an idiot so I'm just gonna
ignore what they say right so like when
when other people give me feedback about
Who I am as a person that's going to
conflict with like my sense of self and
so if a lot of people call me an idiot
then my sense of self will start to
change right if everyone calls me an
[ __ ] I'm gonna start to feel like bad
and then over time I can come to learn
and believe that I'm an [ __ ] for
people with BPD the the thing that's on
the inside is like really really really
weak or even they don't really think
it's there at all so they don't have
like a persistent sell sense of who they
are as a person and so what that means
is that the way they feel is determined
by how other people reflect them so if
people treat me well I feel like a good
person and if people treat me poorly I
feel like a piece of [ __ ] and this is
true of all people like everyone's gonna
feel a little bit bad but with BPD the
swings are huge so if for example I send
a text to the person that I'm dating and
they don't respond I start to think that
like oh my god this person like doesn't
care about me at all they're gonna break
up with me they don't care about me even
though it's just like they just didn't
respond to a text right away not that
big of a deal but for the person with
BPD they over interpret that because if
you think about like if I send a text
and then no one responds and like why
don't I get freaked out about it it's
because I have a sense of basic
confidence that Who I am as a person
matters and that this other person cares
about me like I'm sort of settled in
that belief people in BPD don't have
that foundation so when they send a text
in no one responds to them they start
freaking the [ __ ] out and they feel like
oh my god like this person doesn't like
me they're kind of not really like doing
they don't care about me or anything
like that and so when people with BPD
what starts to happen is they get like
really erratic in their behavior because
they'll do in order for them to feel
good people have to treat them with hair
and they'll sort of start to learn that
like okay these are the things that I
can do to get people to like exhibit
brand gestures of care so a lot of
people with BPD for example will have
like pair of suicidal gestures they'll
experience suicidality and they'll
threaten to kill themselves or they'll
cut and the reason for that is because
when I threatened to kill myself
everyone drops what they're doing and
sweeps in and says oh my god like are
you okay like tell me like how can I
help you
oh my god you're such an amazing person
and so over time what happens is like
they get they reinforce behaviors that
kind of encourage people to like
drastically come to their aid and then
they run into problems because people
get tired of that [ __ ] after a while
like when when you get called by a
friend of yours and they say oh my god
you have to come over right now or I'm
gonna kill myself you're gonna drop
everything that you do you go there and
you're like oh my god please don't do
that you care about them so much you you
work them through it the next morning
after you've been talking to them for 12
hours you leave and you feel good you
feel good about yourself you're like man
that was really exhausting and tough but
like I was really there for them you
feel like a good friend they feel better
everyone feels great two days later they
call you again and then you show up and
you talk them through the night and then
two days later they call you again and
at some point you get burnt out and
you're like I can't deal with the [ __ ]
in and then what happens is you you say
look I can't help you anymore I'm done
and then the person with BPD feels like
[ __ ] because instead of like saving them
you're abandoning that and then that
like makes the cycle like way worse and
then what they need to do is like
escalate even further so if they tell
you like if you say hey I can't come
over I'm busy right now
then they're gonna even escalate they're
gonna say like they're gonna send you a
picture with like them in a bottle of
pills and they'll do whatever they need
to to get you to comment like comfort
because if you exhibit comfort towards
them they feel like warm and fuzzy on
the inside and without you they feel
empty
that's BPD
I'm gonna just take a second to look at
so BPD it's not that it's not curable
it's just that it doesn't have standard
I mean it has standard treatment but
it's not like medication isn't gonna fix
it
BPD is something that that is like it
has to do with your personality
structure so your personality can change
over time right like you can be an
[ __ ] feeder in a game and like you
can learn how to like not do that and
resolve your own toxicity and even over
time your personality can change people
can become less narcissistic they can
become more confident in it selves they
can become like less borderline it can
definitely happen it just takes a lot of
time and it seems like the best there
are some evidence-based treatments but
it seems like just having someone kind
of like really be stable and comforting
for you but not respond to your ups and
downs in a differential way is the best
way to sort of help people come out of
beep
and someone just be really low in
self-esteem in this dude apparently
being afraid of their partner leaving
absolutely man that's exactly what I
mean
not everyone who has that has BPD but
that's the essence of BPD so low
self-esteem
that's just like think through this for
a second okay so this is the question
can someone just be really low in sulfa
steam and thus do the paranoid behavior
of being afraid of their partner leaving
absolutely so let's just think through
what what happens in that person's head
so if I don't feel like I'm a valuable
person like if I feel on the inside that
like I'm just not a good person then I
think that if someone recognizes me for
what I am that they're more likely to
leave right like people with low
self-esteem
basically sometimes feel like they've
tricked their partners into being with
them and that if their partner really
understood how much of a piece of [ __ ]
they were they would leave because
there's something better down the street
and so that that's like logical like you
guys it's really important to understand
this most of what people think of as
mental illness is that someone's not
thinking right but the crazy thing is
that in my experience most of mental
illness is thinking logically it's just
like a perversion of logic like when we
go back to Henry remember how he's
saying like oh if I quit Clash of Kings
again it's not gonna go well like that's
not logical I think he's right because
he's tried it right and he was like
wound up depressed and in the hospital
and being like involuntary hospitalized
with a bunch of shrinks so the person
who feels like they have low self-esteem
their logical conclusions that follow or
accurate and then what happens is like
they they really do think that if this
person figures out who I really am
they're gonna leave and then they start
exhibiting paranoid behavior right
because they try to control for that and
so they try to go like really out of
their way to like control what their
partner does and what their partner sees
and how their partner responds and they
kind of think like oh if I'm not a good
person if my partner goes out and meets
other people they're going to realize
that I am NOT a good person
and that they can do better than me and
so then they start to exhibit like
paranoid controlling behavior right
because they're like oh my god I don't
want you to spend time with like other
people because then you're gonna realize
that I'm not good enough and that's
where the paranoid and controlling
behavior kicks in so it's actually
incredibly logical and that's exactly
right a call 101 or 1001 that someone
who has low self-esteem is going to
exhibit paranoid and controlling
behavior out of a fear of abandonment in
the really crazy thing is that the more
paranoid behavior they exhibit the
further they drive their partner away
and if they succeed in driving their
partner away that just serves to
reinforce them that they were right all
along
like that's the crazy thing when their
partner breaks up with them they're like
oh all of my thoughts cuz somewhere
along the way someone told them actually
you're a wonderful person and you're not
a piece of [ __ ] but when they drive
their partner way through paranoid
behavior they realize like oh I was
right all along
I actually am a piece of [ __ ] because if
I wasn't a piece of [ __ ] they wouldn't
have left you enter the second
relationship and that feeling is even
stronger the paranoid behavior is even
stronger and then you drive them away
even harder and then the cycle repeats
itself and this is why people who have
like these kind of psychological
constructs like gamers included this is
why everyone feels [ __ ] stuck because
your mind works in a way where like it
tells you that what you believe is
correct even though it's not
let me just think
uh-huh okay so domination time asks how
do you break that cycle of the person
threatening suicide and increasing what
they do for attention
you separate the stimulus from the
response so we have to talk about
Pavlov's dogs for a second okay like
behavioral reinforcement so when like
remember there's this guy named like
Pavlov who basically like every time he
fed dogs he would ring a bell before he
feeds the dogs so he'd like ringing a
bell and then he'd give them dog food
and the dogs would like smell the dog
food they'd start to salivate and then
to eat the food over time what he
realized is that all he had to do is
ring the bell and he doesn't even give
them food and they start salivating so
we have this tendency to like connect
actions and responses so when we think
about someone who threatens suicide and
when their suicidal behavior gets
reinforced by someone dropping
everything in expressing care and love
for them what they're looking for is the
care in love and if I exhibit suicidal
behavior and that leads to care and love
that's going to reinforce the behavior
of suicidal like threatening by the way
you guys like if you guys are dealing
with something like this you should
actually seek a medical professional
like you shouldn't try to do this at all
just to be very clear about that and now
let's use like a simpler example so when
my kids throw a temper tantrum giving in
to the temper tantrum is gonna teach
them that Oh a temper tantrum is the way
to get what I want so instead what we do
is we retrain
how they get what they want so instead
of my kid is like throwing a temper
tantrum and is like throwing things I'll
stop and I'll just be patient I won't
respond to the temper tantrum I'll say
do you want this cupcake and the kid
will be like that and I'm like do you
want the cupcake and then uh then I'll
say like how do we ask for cupcakes and
then the kid will kind of calm down and
they'll say can I have the cupcake
please and then you go
here you go and then that reinforces
asking so the first time we did that it
took me like five minutes to get them to
ask for the cupcake the second time it
took four minutes the third time it took
three minutes now they throw a temper
tantrum thirty seconds later I'm like
how do we ask for things and they're
like can I have this please and that
that's how you reinforce the behavior so
in the case of someone a BPD like in my
patients with BPD
you know when they call me and they're
in a crisis if I spend if I drop what
I'm doing and spend like two hours with
them on the phone like calming them down
they're gonna call me again the next day
so the question that I ask practically
and this is like medical stuff so you
guys really should not be dealing with
but you know what I'll say is like hey
can this like I can see you tomorrow
morning at 10 a.m. do you think you can
make it through the night and let's like
meet tomorrow at 10:00 and then they
come in at 10:00 and then we talk
through things and they feel better when
they leave and so then what happens is
they they'll like so now what happens is
I get a text and it'll be like hey do
you have any time over the next I know
we were supposed to meet on Friday but
do you have any time on like Monday or
Tuesday to me and then I'll say yes I do
and then I'll make the time for them so
you provide the care and support that
they need because that's just like a
good human thing to do but you provide
it independent of their behavior so if
you have someone who's like really
struggling and they kind of like reach
out to you you just set aside time for
them like on a regular basis you say
like hey men like I know this is a tough
time for you and that sometimes you call
me when you're like blackout drunk and
you're like you're you're pissed off
that that this chick broke up with you
why don't we just have brunch every
Sunday and just like check in and see
how you're doing because BPD is like
it's sort of it's a disorder but every
human being has that kind of like
that has that structure within them
right we all respond well to certain
kinds of things behavioral change can be
modified like in all of us so it's all
kind of I mean everyone has that I think
it's just really important to think
about what is the behavior that you want
to reinforce and not be a dick about it
I mean sometimes you have to but really
to try to be compassionate and sort of
like okay what do I want to like what do
I want to reward my child for doing when
they come to me and they say hey Dad can
I please play with this like the last
like hey can I please watch TV
and if they ask super nicely then I'll
be like okay fine and I'll relent even
though they're not supposed to but if
they ask super nice I'll relent because
I want them to like ask for things
nicely and then sometimes if they ask
nicely and I say no and then they
hissy-fit then there's no way but if
they ask nicely and I say no and they
stay calm about it then I'll be like
thank you for for understanding that we
can't watch right now since you did such
a good job like why don't we read an
extra story tonight and so you still
want to reinforce the behavior without
sort of giving into it all right sorry
you want to provide like you want to
reinforce the behavior that you want to
like you want to see more of
[Music]
so let me just go do you know the best
yeah so Monte like that's what I'm
saying right so so there's a great book
called walking with it walking on
eggshells I think which is about working
with people with BPD but I think the
most important thing to remember is that
like you should be relatively neutral
and caring so you kind of let people
know that you have boundaries and limits
and that when you don't compromise your
boundaries it doesn't mean that you
don't care so if you get a frantic text
from someone like kind of like know what
I was saying earlier like the way that I
deal with patients say I understand
you're in crisis right now
do you think you can make it through the
night and if they say no then I'll say
like okay well I'm with my children
right now and it's not that I don't care
about you but I have a responsibility my
kids too if you really can't make it
through the night you should go to the
emergency room and that's not what
they're looking for right like so if
they really are in danger they will go
to the emergency room talk to them about
hey
um and the other thing is to to sort of
recognize that like they're going to
interpret benign stuff that has nothing
to do with them is a personal insult you
didn't respond to my text that means you
don't give a [ __ ] about me no man like
I'm just I was taking a [ __ ] like I
can't be on I can't be texting you
constantly and so what you've got to do
is just be like really stable and then
try to explain to them that I really do
care about you but sometimes I just have
other things going on and it can't be
available to all this do you feel like
you need someone 24/7 to help you and
then kind of have a conversation sort of
about that and what you can what you can
do and what what you can't do
um
so aww underscore L asks while I
understand there's some crossover is
that to suggest that those with the
depression are resistant to compliments
and those with BPD are somewhat
dependent actually that's a great
characterization so yeah so people with
with depression have a cognitive bias
and we'll see this on stream like I'm
sure we'll see it on stream I'll try to
point it out to you the next time you
wear some people who have low attitudes
and like low feelings of self-worth like
if you try to tell them that you think
that are made an amazing person they'll
say like they'll just think you're wrong
so have they have this idea that they're
really just not valuable and that if
other people are telling them that they
just can't accept it it's just not it's
just not true like in their mind it's
just not true
they have a really powerful cognitive
bias whereas in BPD what happens is the
way they feel about themselves is the
way that other people treat them
and so if other people people treat them
really well like then that's great and
that's kind of like I mean you can think
about celebrities like that's also true
I think a lot of celebrities have some
kind of like borderline like structure
it doesn't mean that they have BPD
but as our psychology gets bombarded and
streamers have this - as our psychology
gets bombarded with other people's
opinions of us we start to like our
psychology just can't keep up with it
and it starts to like appreciate those
things more and more yes sir a
correlation between narcissistic
behavior in gaming I have a [ __ ]
lutely man so in so many ways man like
this is a whole different topic I think
we could spend an entire stream on it
let me just lay it out like very simply
so the first thing is this thing called
the dunning-kruger effect and this is
this idea that like the more ignorant
you are on something the more you
recognize the less likely you are to
recognize that you're ignorant so this
is like when you're a noob who plays a
game like you think you understand why
you guys lost the game but because
you're a [ __ ] noob you really have no
idea why you lost the game but trying to
convince someone who's bad at a game
that their analysis of a game is
incorrect because they're bad like just
doesn't work like it just doesn't work
right so that's kind of a narcissistic
thing and dunning-kruger basically says
that the worse you are the game the less
likely you are to understand how bad you
and then as you get better at something
you begin to see the gaps in your
knowledge and your more accurately be
able to judge your own skill and at the
top end of the spectrum you're very good
at judging how good you are because you
understand the game really well so if
you think about like if I'm a noob at
chess my ability to gauge whether
someone else is good or bad at chess is
not very good if I'm a grandmaster at
chess I can play like five moves or
three moves against someone and I can
sort of accurately rate how good they
are so the ability to judge skill starts
with skill but in games what people
don't understand people are making
judgments all the time about like other
players and why people lose games but
they suck and so they lack the the skill
to like recognize why people are good
and why people are bad that in and of
itself is a narcissistic behavior the
other thing that happens in games and
this is kind of a completely different
dimension is that a lot of gamers have a
lack of confidence which in turn means
that they're egotistical because
remember that confidence and ego like we
kind of think about them sometimes in
the same realm but they're inversely
proportional so the higher the more
confident I am them the less egotistical
and if we think about what's the
between confidence and ego confidence it
kind of goes back to BPD so ego is
someone who requires other people to
validate who they think they are and
confidence doesn't require people so the
self-worth of an egotistical person
comes from outside and the self-worth of
a confident person comes from the inside
and so what happens in gaming is that if
people are not like if people are not
confident and who they are because a lot
of times gamers aren't like Henry is
like a decent guy for example but you
know a lot of gamers like aren't doing
great in life so they don't like jump
around and think that they're amazing
people and so it conversely like their
ego is pretty high and then that that
manifests is like narcissistic stuff in
game where people get super bent out of
shape they call other people [ __ ] if
someone calls you a [ __ ] you get bent
out of shape whereas like if you're
confident in who you're all like when I
get when people rage at me in a game
like I don't really care it's like these
guys are just they're just raging in a
game like they have no idea who I am
like they don't understand anything
about me and if they're raging at me in
a game like that's all coming from them
it has nothing to do with me but if
you're affected by like other people's
rage then that's like kind of a
narcissistic structure that you have
um
so there's another question from Ziya
which is you talked about mood swings
earlier and how with people with bipolar
it's usually for like weeks and months
but when people do have it like you said
from 12 p.m. to p.m. like 6 p.m. when
people have mood swings from like hours
what is that is that something called
emotional lability and I think a lot of
that actually has to do with gaming so
when we like when we play video games
it's sort of suppresses our emotional
circuitry and those emotions are kind of
like floating right beneath the surface
so what happens is like when you have
stuff that's right beneath the surface
it can explode and it can also calm down
it can explode and it can calm down but
I think the reason that people have
those kinds of mood swings is because
they never truly process their emotions
right like if you get if you get into a
fight with your mom because like you
didn't take out the trash and you like
rage and you guys get into this huge
fight about a little thing and then two
hours later like both y'all are like
civil with each other like where did
that emotion go and then like the next
day you guys like get into another
stupid fight it's because it's the same
amount of that emotion that just keeps
resurfacing it's just bobbing to the
surface and so a lot of mood swings are
about like not processing emotions but
just burying emotions and then like
they're like a geyser like the pressure
builds up and they burst and then they
calm down and then they burst and so
what you really got to do if you want to
stop a geyser from exploding like you
have to vent it out right you have to
get all the pressure out and that's
accomplished in things like therapy
through meditation and things like that
Chinn time was saying yeah just curious
I had a situation back in freshman year
in college where a friend was suicidally
depressed I ended up falling into the
cycle of always being there for him and
making the situation worse as he
escalated yeah man that's tough like
that's exactly what that's the situation
right that you become this person's
pressure valve and then as they vent
their pressure into you you start
getting exhausted you can't be their
pressure valve anymore and then they
escalate
and the more they escalate then you like
dig deep and even though you've been
talking them through the night every
night for three days in a row when they
say like yeah this is the time man this
is the time I really need you if you
can't come over I'm really gonna do it
then you go over there and you're just
reinforcing that behavior
and so
someone at Scot Marx asked to any help
on any tips on helping a friend with
paranoid delusions look guys I really
can't give you medical advice over the
internet so I'd say if your friend
actually has paranoid delusions or if
you know people who are suicidal like
you should not try to fix this like it's
one thing to be a friend and it's one
thing to understand behavioral
reinforcement but if you have really
have people who are suicidal that you're
talking to you should really encourage
them to get professional help and same
with paranoid delusions like I think
that you know twitch chat is brilliant
and can accomplish all kinds of things
but we're really talking about like
tried-and-true suicidality and paranoid
delusions and even BPD for that matter
like they need professional help and so
that's what you guys should really be
doing and encourage them to do that
because they're much more likely to
listen to you than they are to like
actually listen to a clinician so many
of the people that actually end up in my
office or because someone they care
about and someone that cares about them
and someone that they trust told them
they're like hey I really think you
should see a psychiatrist and then they
like wind up in my office and thank God
that that person existed because without
that friend like that person would have
never sought help so I think the most
important thing that you can do is
instead of trying to tackle it all on
your own because you may be able to you
may not be able to you may be doing your
friend a disservice it may be bigger
than you realize there may be issues
that you don't even know to think about
like is this person being abused are
they using drugs like you may not know
that stuff and all that stuff factors in
send them to a professional and
encourage them to do that or send them
to the stream and show them that
hopefully professionals are scary
so then a call 1001 asks however how can
you control for external factors I'm
assuming in this factions in that
situation for example if someone is
getting into the cycle if the targeted
person doesn't give them the positive
reinforcement then the instigator just
goes off for someone else who does give
them that you can't control for that
right like so first of all you can't
control what someone else does and so
when dealing with BPD like I think it's
I mean so what I do I don't try to
control the person's family what I
really try to do is show the person
themselves the pattern and once you show
the person the pattern if you can get
them to recognize that then real change
starts to happen like BPD doesn't work
great I mean there is a lot of value in
terms of like helping caregivers and
family members like sort of get on the
same page there's a lot of value in that
but ultimately remember that like what
you need to change are the person who
needs to do any kind of changing is the
person who's suffering that's the person
who needs to change it's not like you
have to line up everyone else to make
them change you've got a you know
they've got to be the ones that do the
change
um and that's actually so if you look at
sort of like look up the criteria for
for BPD you'll see that one of them is a
history of intense and unstable
relationships and it's exactly for the
reason that a call 1001 said because
what happens is like one person doesn't
give them the positive reinforcement so
they like ghost that person and latch on
to someone else and they get like really
intense with someone they're like
telling people that oh I love you like
I've been dating with you like you've
been dating a week and they fall over
head-over-heels they're like moving in
one month later and then things just
like implode and then they move out and
then they find someone else and it's
really sad but that's like what happens
so people with BPD have a history of
unstable and intense relationships
because people just can't handle them
for like an extended period of time